+++
Description = ""
Tags = ["RPI3", "ADSB", "HypriotOS", "Dump1090", "Docker"]
date = "2016-09-22T09:00:29-07:00"
title = "ADSB / Dump1090 in Docker (Part 1)"

+++
As I have described in my [intro post](/2016/08/31/intro/ "Intro"),
some of my Raspberrys run Docker in the form of the 
[HypriotOS](http://blog.hypriot.com "HypriotOS Blog"). Another one of my
Raspberrys is running an ADS-B Receiver. So naturally it would be nice to
combine the two.

The core of the ADS-B Receiver on the SW side is the 
[Dump1090](https://github.com/MalcolmRobb/dump1090 "Dump1090") program, 
this is what interfaces to the RTL-SDR HW dongle to receive the 
over-the-air messages and covert it into textual or graphical 
representation of plane positions etc.

Here is the first cut of a `Dockerfile` that will load and compile
the necessary collateral for `Dump1090` operation and then compile and
run `Dump1090` itself.

```
FROM resin/rpi-raspbian:jessie-20160831
MAINTAINER Nikolai Schlegel nikolai.schlegel@gmail.com

RUN apt-get update && \
    apt-get install -y \
    git git-core cmake libusb-1.0.0-dev build-essential pkg-config \
    --no-install-recommends && \
    apt-get clean && \
    rm -Rf /var/lib/apt/lists/* /tmp/* /var/tmp/*


WORKDIR /data

RUN git clone git://git.osmocom.org/rtl-sdr.git && \
    cd rtl-sdr && \
    mkdir build

WORKDIR /data/rtl-sdr/build

RUN cmake ../ -DDETACH_KERNEL_DRIVER=ON -DINSTALL_UDEV_RULES=ON && \
    make && \
    make install && \
    ldconfig

WORKDIR /data
RUN cp ./rtl-sdr/rtl-sdr.rules /etc/udev/rules.d/
RUN git clone git://github.com/MalcolmRobb/dump1090.git

WORKDIR /data/dump1090
RUN make

EXPOSE 8080

ENTRYPOINT ["/data/dump1090/dump1090", "--net"]
```

However, there are several things that I don't like with the current
solution.

1. The [resin/rpi-raspbian](https://hub.docker.com/r/resin/rpi-raspbian/ "resin/rpi-raspbian")
base image used as a starting point for this `Dockerfile` was chosen for
maximum compatibility compared to running on Raspberry "bare metal", but
it is rather large (> 200 MB) and takes a while to download & extract. 
Something like [hypriot/rpi-alpine-scratch](https://hub.docker.com/r/hypriot/rpi-alpine-scratch/ "hypriot/rpi-alpine-scratch")
would be a much better choice. Also note that as of this writing, there is a bug
in the `latest` tag of this base image, hence the explicit reference to the
`jessie-20160831` tag.

2. The Dockerfile includes a lot of packages and does a lot of steps
that are necessary only for the building of `Dump1090` but are not 
necessary for the actual operation of the program. It would be
nice to just include a fully built `Dump1090` and handle the building
itself in a different Docker image that only get's run on an as-needed basis.

3. The version of `Dump1090` used is 
[MalcolmRobb's version](https://github.com/MalcolmRobb/dump1090 "MalcomRobb's Dump1090")
which is in turn a fork of an 
[earlier version](https://github.com/antirez/dump1090 "Antirez Dump1090").
There is a more current version of `Dump1090` maintained by 
[mutability](https://github.com/mutability/dump1090 "Mutability Dump1090") which
has some performance improvements and also handles graphical representation
of the aircraft position via an external webserver.   

I'll revisit this set-up with refinements in future posts.
